microsoft excel 2006 crackeadoIcono de rol, IM Dev — 15/12/25, 9:09
wasn't able to look at anything this weekend, had to run the offline event then some work stuff sunday. Just a few updates:

Regarding the controller stuff:
 I was able to test it a little at the event and it seemed to work fine, there was a reported issue however related to linux by noel where it would just crash the game at startup. We can't really support linux realistically as it stands but in my view it shouldn't crash, so my suggestion was to make a setting in settings.ini for linux players to set that disables the hooks in your code. Noel did something a bit more involved with checking for likely linux users and showing a window (https://github.com/Noel-FGC/BBCF-Improvement-Mod/commit/14c06c295d85e819552bc23f86604d3a6f9ee6a3#diff-2878d97676efddf3f3a151e5c389c540bf64f9bbb5333956be91993cb021afdd) but initially just a setting without all that should work since.

Regarding multi-language support:
You'd need to find a way to make the code not look like a mess when creating the windows/markers with branching every time you want to write something. Probably a wrapper over all the ImGui functions that draw text, then take all the literal text currently in hose functions and move them to a file, creating global structs for each with their respective languages (which would be the thing the wrapper reads).
//DEBUG button on main window
// g_MainWindow_UtilButtons_DEBUG is the global struct with the butotn name for all languages
// g_modVals.language is the language selected

Buttton_lang(g_MainWindow_UtilButtons_DEBUG, g_modVals.language);

 I've been planning to do this to the help markers for a long time already, not multi-language but separating them in their own files.

With that being said, I wouldn't tread the multi language route unless you're ready to give long-term support, because I won't commi to do i myself, for the same reason I don't have it for pt-br.

KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 15/12/25, 11:00
Controller stuff:

Alright, interesting. I'll look into this crash as soon as i can, honestly i like noel's approach more, so i might just merge/replicate the commits they made to it and go from there. Though, i have no real way to test this unless i make a linux virtual machine or whatever like that, so might need you guys' help on that.


Multi-language support:

I've been working on this feature since i talked about it, just to test out the idea. Right now my idea is as follows:

-You have a resx file for each language (I currently have localization.es.resx, and localization.resx)
-Each resx will have basically a dictionary, a key name ("MainWindow_UtilButtons_DEBUG" like in your case) and the localized string ("Hello" for english, "Hola" for spanish, etc)
-When you add an entry to any of the languages, it'll auto-create a global variable in another localization manager script (g_MainWindow_UtilButtons_DEBUG)
-Whenever you're gonna write text, you can do "Hello" which is just a non-localizable text, aka will be the same in every single language. Or you can do Localization.g_MainWindow_UtilButtons_DEBUG which will look up the correct language's string.
-When the mod runs, it'll run an automatic check of "is the language fully complete (aka does it have all entries)" and will only let you select the languages that ARE complete.


This should be robust enough to be for long-term support, however:

-Devs would have to add entries to the resx themselves/translate it themselves so all languages have it.
-They'd have to remember to not use normal strings in their code.
-While this is robust and easy to do, it is still an extra step any time you wanna write anything.
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 15/12/25, 11:12
Do you think it's still good with the cons of it or is it preferable to just keep it full english for simplicity's sake
(i'm still gonna just develop the feature most likely, just so i can see how actually annoying/easy development would be post-that, and also so i know i can just go back to do it any time)
microsoft excel 2006 crackeadoIcono de rol, IM Dev — 15/12/25, 12:22
can you give me an example how a ImGui::Button(...) call would look like? I dont get how it knows the language without wrapping all of the calls to draw these
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 15/12/25, 12:34
ImGui::Button(Localization::Mainwindow_Button) is an example of you using a button with a multi-language static string variable.

Localization is just a manager script which has all of the static variables, which are language specific.

My idea is just: Make Localization::Mainwindow_Button have an internal resolver according to which language you're on (which is just a static variable as well) 
I dont know if it CAN be exactly ImGui::Button(Localization::Mainwindow_Button) in c++ cuz this is an idea taken from c#, but at absolute most it'll be ImGui::Button(Localization::Mainwindow_Button()) 
microsoft excel 2006 crackeadoIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 14:55
don't think you can overload the "." operator, but you can others. The whole needing to write literals to a different file for me is fine, I'm just concerned with the long term support for multiple languages and the possible expectation of people that they will be supported forever. I also don't really understand the purpose of a .resx file instead of a normal cpp file, granted I have no knowledge of .NET but still we don't use .NET in the project.
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 14:56
resx just is the way you edit it easier, with resx files you can edit it like this
Imagen
visual studio helps you edit resx with this, that's about it
you can have all languages here and see what is missing/what is complete etc
microsoft excel 2006 crackeadoIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 14:58
ok but how does cpp parse it? do you use a lib? by hand? etc 
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 15:02
i use a python script to just generate an internal file that does this on compilation (i'm still working on it though, doesnt work all that well just yet)
Imagen
it just goes through the resx and generates a header file where you can have all of the items. I'd like it to be not on compilation though since thats a bit annoying but, i'll see what i can do
microsoft excel 2006 crackeadoIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 15:04
if it's not natively supported and you'd need to do stuff like this I'd suggest just using a csv file and editing on excel/sheets/whatever, will be the same editing interface practically and csv parsing is a solved****** problem. Also looking in the future, if this catches on, the ideal thing would be for the translations to be accessible to non-programmers, and a simple csv would work like that. 
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 15:05
yeah i also thought about doing that with an actual google sheets since that's possible to do
like. link a google sheet online to "when compiling, download this and save it"
microsoft excel 2006 crackeadoIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 15:05
I wouldn't go that far
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 15:05
or maybe even at runtime but that'd be kinda dumb cuz you can real-time edit it
microsoft excel 2006 crackeadoIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 15:06
i'd just download the latest csv and compile with it when releasing a new version honestly
CI is cool and all but there's no need for such complexity
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 15:06
fair, just thinking of optimal option cuz i like to do those
microsoft excel 2006 crackeadoIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 15:07
fair enough, it's half the fun
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 16/12/25, 15:07
and then spend months developing it
but yeah i just wanted native editting of languages
and resx was the closest to a real time in-visual-studio csv editor
i'll shift focus to a csv once i actually get everything to work how i want it to
cuz after i get everything to work proper then i can just change the where it's from and that's that
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 22/12/25, 0:22
https://github.com/HaiKamDesu/BBCF-Improvement-Mod/releases/tag/v3.0
GitHub
Release Multi-Language Support – BBCF finally learned a second la...
Yes, really.
Up until now this mod spoke English and only English.
That era is over.
This release introduces a full, proper multi-language system, and ships with Spanish as the first additional lan...
Yes, really.
Up until now this mod spoke English and only English.
That era is over.
This release introduces a full, proper multi-language system, and ships with Spanish as the first additional lan...
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 22/12/25, 0:30
Welp. got that one "finished"

To summarize what i was able to do:

1- Tried to fix the linux issue, same way noel did but i did it more like "if the hooks are on in the settings, and you are on linux (through detecting it the same way they did) then turn it off. But you can still force-enable it if you want through another setting (mostly just to test out stuff in linux later)"

No clue if it works though cuz i dont have a way to test that rn.

2- Multi language is now a csv. It's as simple as "add new column = game will interpret that as new language" so you can add as many as you want. Though they'll only become truly selectable if you have EVERY entry filled out. aka you cant have a language just translate like one thing, the full column should be complete.

3- tried to fix some crashes related to controller redetection, i think there's some that i still havent fixed but i cant replicate them so i got no clue how they work yet.
In the end, here is workflow of how languages/using the strings in code works:
huge csv. i'll focus on gameplay settings as my example. it just has first column be its method name, and then every column after is just a language for that string
Imagen
then, any time you rebuild the project, this file gets built as well (through a powershell script. dunno if that's a problem but that's how it works rn)

and now we got "Gameplay_settings()" here in the LocalizationKeys.autogen.h
Imagen
then in the actual code, you just use all of these by doing "Messages.(method name)"
Imagen
and it'll resolve on its own
so now the workflow whenever you'd want to add a string thing is:

add row to csv, define method name and language for that stuff, rebuild so autogen generates the method, and then use Messages.(your method) to use the string.
that or you just. ignore everything and go for a raw string which will not change no matter the language.
KamIcono de rol, IM Dev — 22/12/25, 0:38
I havent merged this with my PR to main branch of IM because i'll wait for a review on this before doing that. I don't know if this is even something you'd like to add to the main branch of IM, but well, now it exists.
i go sleep now
SIYIcono de rol, IM Dev — 23/12/25, 22:37
Cool, this actually also makes it a bit more convenient to edit the tooltips and stuff
instead of having to grep the whole thing lol
Localization or not it'd be cool to centralize this stuff
microsoft excel 2006 crackeadoIcono de rol, IM Dev — 4/1/26, 12:30
been off for a while due to work and festivities, this should still be a busy week buut then we should be fine, sorry for the delays. So regarding the linux stuff, did you get around to implementing it in order to stop the hooking of the controller stuff?